Hello, and welcome to my Programming for
Everybody course on Coursera.
My name's Charles Severance and
I'm a Clinical Associate Professor in
the University of
Michigan School of Information.
I'm convinced that anyone
can learn to program, and
I've built a course that introduces
you to the basics of programming.
You don't need to be a math expert.
If you can add, subtract, multiply,
and divide numbers,
you are ready to take this class.
But I don't just want to teach you
the Python programming language.
I have a few other goals.
First, I'd like to teach you how
to take a programming class.
There are lots of wonderful resources
like Khan Academy and Code Academy and
code.org on the web that can teach
you bits and pieces of programming.
Perhaps you've even started to learn
programming using Scratch or Minecraft.
But learning on your own
will only get you so far.
And programming classes
can be challenging.
So I want you to develop skills
in taking programming classes,
so that you can successfully take other
courses, like those from Rice University,
the University of Washington, or others.
My second goal is teach you how to mentor
others, to help them learn programming.
Because if we're truly going to
achieve programming for everybody,
we need lots of mentors.
Even in this class,
you will learn a great deal from the other
students and Community Teaching Assistants.
And one-to-one interaction
is really important.
Especially when learning complex
skills like programming.
My third goal is to give everyone
a kit of free and open materials so
that anyone who's a teacher can teach
a version of this class locally.
All the materials in this course
are available under a Creative
Commons license.
The book is free.
The PowerPoint files are free.
The video and audio materials are free.
And the autograder that I
use in class is also free.
I provide you a link to
our Open Michigan website
where you can download all
the materials for the class.
I firmly believe that beginning classes
need to be taught in one's native
language, so I want to encourage teachers
around the world to take my materials,
translate them, remix them, and republish
them with a Creative Commons license.
I would like to see the textbook for
the course also made available in
many different languages as well.
To sum this all up, I see Programming for
Everybody as much more than a single
class, I want this to become a movement
that creates an expanding open ecosystem
that brings us all closer together.
And helps us move towards a world where
programming is truly for everybody.
See you in class.